---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2015-12-22T20:50:00.952Z'
dateModified: '2015-12-22T20:49:06.404Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-12-22-438232d2-ab4a-4b91-aad5-ab6648143f2f.md
published: true
url: 438232d2-ab4a-4b91-aad5-ab6648143f2f/index.html
_type: Article

---
Archetypes symbolically represent the energies of life that not only control us and keep us alive, but connect us to the one universal cosmic body. We are individual because we have a mental physical spiritual and emotional bodies that separate us from each other. It is through this separation that we are independent and therefore responsible for our own lives and how they unfold.

However that is half the picture because the source of the mind, body, spirit and soul is that of the cosmic body of intelligence. In other words the mind, body, spirit and soul connect us to each other and all life. Human Beings are the expression of these four bodies interacting in life, we are infact personifying the nature of what we are and what life is.

The journey of evolution is the unfolding of these four bodies in nature through us into life, which is the expression of the one cosmic body. As Human Beings are basically self centered because our lives are valuable to us, therefore we center things around us. How we think, what our needs are, what we do and how we feel, is of priority to us and our survival. In the bigger picture we are still expressing the mind, body, spirit and soul.

The cosmic body has been with us since the dawn of time and will continue to unfold in its evolutional journey well after we are gone. Human Beings are individual reflections of the forces that carry this cosmic body because it is the source of who we are and where we come from. When we die we will continue to be connected to this cosmic body that reflects the mind, body, spirit and soul in its unfolding evolutional journey.

The whole reason why we are here is part of the physical evolutional cycle of survival, in which our ancestors past on their heritage so future generations will continue to survive and evolve. This struggle to survive is infact what evolution is about. As our universe expands so does the intelligence of life, because the journey becomes greater and the process becomes more involved. Yet it is still basically the same process as it was in the beginning. Which is the balance and expression of energy within space and matter. It is through this process in finding harmony that a cycle is formed.

The harmonic balance of our planet has become so perfected through its cycle in evolution, that harmony between space, energy and matter, has given us four elements, air, earth, fire and water. Air and fire representing space and energy, earth representing matter and water representing the culmination and universal solvent through which individual life has become possible.

The mind, body, spirit and soul are infact our expression of air, earth, fire and water coming together in the process of harmonic convergence. It is this convergence that connects us to the cycle of our planet and the process of its evolution. The interaction of the elements are part of the process of our evolution and therefore our journey called life and living it.

It is through our journey that our mind, body, spirit and soul, evolve through the convergence of our own space and energy, allowing our physical being an independent life. It is these energies that are symbolic as archetypal energies that carry us around making our lives possible.

Our motivation is our energy which is our spirit being expressed through our mind, body and soul, which is our mental physical and emotional self. Our motivation comes from the conditions that have been placed on us, or that we have chosen to create. We either react to life around us or we except life for what it is.

The archetypes give us mental, physical, spiritual and emotional images that depict these energies very precisely. As we work, play, eat and sleep these four bodies are not only interacting with each other, but we are expressing them in who we are, whether we are expressing the spirit physically in who we are, mentally in who we are or emotionally.

The energy we display in our communication will find its way out through these four bodies, and we will display what is appropriate to what is happening in us.

Why the archetype images are so powerful to us is, because they are being displayed all the time in our communication with each other. Whether the spirit is powerful or joyful, mad or chaotic, or whether the mind is precise or observant, rigid or distant. These are some images we are faced with in our contact and communication with each other. It is through these images that we gain our knowledge of life, which helps us in our journey as the life forces present themselves and challenge us to evolve. We are forced to over come the forces that pull us down, and to try to find a way to survive that is relative to our surroundings.

The mind, body, spirit and soul are the cardinal qualities at which our life hinges on, and it is the expression of these four qualities inwardly and outwardly that connect us to our journey. The archetypes are symbolic of these expressions that connect us to the flow of the life forces. Whether it is Warrior energy taking hold of us in the physical world, or the Angelic energy taking us into the divine world, the mind, body, spirit and soul take us to the heart of the evolutional flow. It is here that all aspects of life are integrated and dispersed, creating harmony and balance as in the Motion of Rotation in the cycle of life.

All aspects of life are connected through the polarities and conflicts of opposites and their coming together in pairs being reconciled or recognized.

It is the archetypes that ring out the music and tune into the flow of life, giving us our inspiration and our passion, connecting us to the life force which moves us.